NMS-11793: Guide to monitor essential Microsoft Active Directory Services (#4898)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/service-assurance/polling-packages.adoc

[[ga-pollerd-packages]]
= Poller Packages

> To define more complex monitoring configuration you can group service configurations into polling packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can group service configurations into polling packages to define a more complex monitoring configuration.
```

This allows you to assign different service configurations to nodes.

To assign a polling package to nodes, use the xref:reference:configuration/filters/filters.adoc[filter] syntax.

Each polling package can have its own <<service-assurance/downtime-model.adoc#ga-service-assurance-downtime-model, downtime model>> configuration.

You can configure multiple packages, and an interface can exist in more than one package.

> This provides great flexibility for how the service levels will be determined for a given device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provides great flexibility for determining service levels on a given device.
```

----
<1> Unique name of the polling package.
<2> Base filter on IP address, categories, or asset attributes of nodes based on xref:reference:configuration/filters/rule-formats.adoc[filter rules].
    The filter is evaluated first and is required.
    This package is used for all IP interfaces that do not have 0.0.0.0 as an assigned IP address and is required.
<3> Allow to specify if the configuration of services is applied on a range of IP interfaces (IPv4 or IPv6).

> Instead of the `include-range` you can add one or more specific IP interfaces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using `include-range`, you can add one or more specific IP interfaces:
```

    <rra>RRA:MIN:0.5:288:366</rra><6>
</rrd>
----
<1> Polling interval for all services in this polling package is reflected in the step size of 300 seconds.

>     All services in this package must be polled in a five-minute interval, otherwise response time measurements are not persisted correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    All services in this package must be polled on a five-minute interval, otherwise response time measurements are not persisted correctly.
```

----

[[ga-pollerd-packages-overlapping-service]]
== Overlapping services

With the ability to specify multiple polling packages you can use the same service (like ICMP) multiple times.

> The order that polling packages are defined in the `poller-configuration.xml` is important when IP interfaces match multiple polling packages with the same service configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order that polling packages are defined in `poller-configuration.xml` is important when IP interfaces match multiple polling packages with the same service configuration.
```

  <downtime interval="600000" begin="43200000" end="432000000" />
</package>
----
<1> Polling interval in the packages are 300 seconds and 30 seconds.

> <2> Different polling interval for the ICMP service
> <3> Different retry settings for the ICMP service
> <4> Different timeout settings for the ICMP service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Different polling interval for the ICMP service.
<3> Different retry settings for the ICMP service.
<4> Different timeout settings for the ICMP service.
```

Author: While I dislike having some items with periods and other ones without, since there is no verb here, they don't need periods.

Author: Good catch. I double checked the NH style guide, and they do recommend all periods, when list is mix of sentences and sentence fragments. I've been using them only with full sentences, and I hate the way that looks!

There can be multiple capture groups inside a pattern, but each must have a unique name.
Note that the regex must be escaped or wrapped in a CDATA tag inside the configuration XML to make it a valid property.

If a poller is matched using its pattern, the parts of the service name that match the capture groups of the pattern are available as parameters to the <<service-assurance/configuration.adoc#ga-pollerd-configuration-meta-data, Metadata DSL>> using the context `pattern` and the capture group name as key.

Examples:

`<pattern><![CDATA[^HTTP-(?<vhost>.*)$]]></pattern>`::
Matches all services with names starting with `HTTP-` followed by a host name.
If the service is called `HTTP-www.example.com`, the Metadata DSL expression `${pattern:vhost}` will resolve to `www.example.com`.

`<pattern><![CDATA[^HTTP-(?<vhost>.*?):(?<port>[0-9]+)$]]></pattern>"`::
Matches all services with names starting with `HTTP-` followed by a hostname and a port.
There will be two variables (`${pattern:vhost}` and `${pattern:port}`), which you can use in the poller parameters.

Use the service pattern mechanism whenever there are multiple instances of a service on the same interface.

> By specifying a distinct service name for each instance, the services are identifiable, but there is no need to add a poller definition per service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make services identifiable by specifying a distinct service name for each instance, but there is no need to add a poller definition for each service.
```

Common use cases for such services are HTTP virtual hosts, where multiple web applications run on the same web server, or BGP session monitoring where each router has multiple neighbors.

[[ga-pollerd-packages-test-service-manually]]
== Test services manually

To troubleshoot, you can run a test via the Karaf shell:
[source, console]
----
ssh -p 8101 admin@localhost
----

Once in the shell, you can show the commands help as follows:
[source, console]
----
opennms> opennms:poll --help
DESCRIPTION
        opennms:poll

> 	Invokes a monitor against a host at a specified location.

Author: ```suggestion
	Invokes a monitor against a host at a specified location
```

SYNTAX
        opennms:poll [options] host [attributes]

ARGUMENTS
        host
                Hostname or IP address of the system to poll
                (required).
        attributes

>                 Monitor specific attributes in key=value form.

Author: ```suggestion
                Monitor specific attributes in key=value form
```

OPTIONS
        --help

>                 Display this help message.

Author: ```suggestion
                Display this help message
```

        -t, --ttl

>                 Time to live

Author: Looking at this, I overcorrected. This text is a sample of what you see on the screen. The punctuation was probably missing in the first place. :-/. I'll revert.

Service is Up on 192.168.31.100 using org.opennms.netmgt.poller.monitors.IcmpMonitor: <6>
	response-time: 407,0000 <7>
----
<1> Service and package of this test.
<2> Applied service configuration from polling package for this test.
<3> Service monitor used for this test.
<4> RRD configuration for response time measurement.
<5> Retry and timeout settings for this test.
<6> Polling result for the service polled against the IP address.
<7> Response time.

> == Test filters on Karaf Shell

Reviewer 2: @Bonrob2 This line triggered me (but also in the past ofc): https://issues.opennms.org/browse/NMS-14421 :-)

Author: :-) I saw your question in the chat. Let's see what happens!

----

> <1> Service and package of this test
> <2> Applied service configuration from polling package for this test

Reviewer: It wouldn't let me include all of these in the suggestion, so I apologize for the number of comments in this section.

```suggestion
<1> Service and package of this test.
<2> Applied service configuration from polling package for this test.
```

<3> Service monitor used for this test.

> <4> RRD configuration for response time measurement
> <5> Retry and timeout settings for this test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> RRD configuration for response time measurement.
<5> Retry and timeout settings for this test.
```

<6> Polling result for the service polled against the IP address.

> <7> Response time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<7> Response time.
```
